add docs for the 1.9 new features (#48)
formancehq/docs: docs/ledger/numscript/overdraft/index.mdx

---
title: Overdrafts
description: To better represent your flows, it can be useful to allow overdrafts on some ledger accounts. This article explains how to do that.
---

import { NumscriptBlock } from 'react-numscript-codeblock';
import Prerequisites from '/docs/ledger/partials/numscript/_prerequisites.mdx';
import Prereqwarn from '/docs/ledger/partials/numscript/_prereq_warning.mdx';

Sometimes we need a transaction to put an account in deficit, i.e. overdraft. For example if you have $100 in your bank account and you buy a $200 item, you will have a negative balance of $100 until you get your next paycheck. This is where overdrafts in Numscript come in.
Another situation likely to happen is linked to refunds, penalties or even coupons. The way you can represent some of these flows is by allowing some accounts to have negative balances, to represent your loss.
<Prerequisites />

## Allow an account to go into overdraft without limits

<NumscriptBlock script={`send [COIN 15] (
  source = @player:leslieknope allowing unbounded overdraft
  destination = @player:annperkins 
)`}></NumscriptBlock>

## Allow an account to go into overdraft up to a certain amount

> This is a great way to handle a simple case where we need to allow overdraft on an account. But sometimes we have business rules in place about negative balance accounts, for example the account @player:leslieknope can only allow overdraft up to 5 COIN, because if a player goes into more than 5 COIN in debt, he will lose the game.

Reviewer: To be consistent with the following paragraph
```suggestion
This is a great way to handle a simple case where we need to allow overdraft on an account. But sometimes we have business rules in place about negative balance accounts, for example the account @player:leslieknope can only allow overdraft up to 5 coins, because if a player goes into more than that in debt, he will lose the game.
```

<NumscriptBlock script={`send [COIN 100] (
  source = @player:leslieknope allowing overdraft up to [COIN 5]
  destination = @player:annperkins 
)`}></NumscriptBlock>

> The user `annperkins` will receive 5 coins in total, even if leslieknope only has 3 coins available. This would put her account balance at a negative 2 cones. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user `annperkins` will receive 5 coins in total, even if leslieknope only has 3 coins available. This would put her account balance at a negative 2 coins. 
```

---
title: Overdrafts
description: To better represent your flows, it can be useful to allow transactions to go into overdraft. This article explains how to do that.
---

import { NumscriptBlock } from 'react-numscript-codeblock';
import Prerequisites from '/docs/ledger/partials/numscript/_prerequisites.mdx';
import Prereqwarn from '/docs/ledger/partials/numscript/_prereq_warning.mdx';

Sometimes you want to allow a transaction to put an account into overdraft. For example if you have 100$ in your bank account and you buy a 200$ item, you will have a negative balance of 100$ until you pay your next paycheck. This is called an overdraft.
Another situation likely to happen is linked to refunds, penalties or even coupons. The way you can represent some of these flows is by allowing some accounts/transactions to go in negative values, to represent your loss. 

<Prerequisites />

## Allow an account to go into overdraft without limits

> The `kept` keyword allows you to specify a transaction that only moves a portion of the transaction amount. As a very basic example of the functionality, imagine that we need to send 15% of a 100 coin transaction from the `centralbank` to `leslieknope`. We could hard-code the 15% fee into our Numscript like this:

Reviewer: Copy paste error ;)

<NumscriptBlock script={`send [CONE 15] (
  source = @player:leslieknope allowing unbounded overdraft
  destination = @player:annperkins 
)`}></NumscriptBlock>

## Allow an account to go into overdraft up to a certain amount

> This is a great way to handle a simple case where an account need to go into negative. But sometimes we have business rules in place about negative accounts, for example the account player:leslieknope:cones can only allow overdraft up to 5 cones, because if a player go into more than 5 cones in debt, he will lose the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a great way to handle a simple case where we need to allow overdraft on an account. But sometimes we have business rules in place about negative balance accounts, for example the account @player:leslieknope can only allow overdraft up to 5 COIN, because if a player goes into more than 5 COIN in debt, he will lose the game.
```

<NumscriptBlock script={`send [COIN 100] (

>   source = @player:leslieknope allowing overdraft up to [CONE 5]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  source = @player:leslieknope allowing overdraft up to [COIN 5]
```

  destination = @player:annperkins 
	}
)`}></NumscriptBlock>

> The user `annperkins` will receive 5 cones in total, even if leslieknope only has 3 cones available. This would put her account balance at a negative 2 cones. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user `annperkins` will receive 5 COIN in total, even if `leslieknope` only has 3 COIN available. This would put the account balance at a negative 2 COIN. 
```
